with every tech product or any kind of
products really it usually follows some
kind of lifecycle that product gets
launched it starts to grow quite rapidly
it usually hits a plateau and then
sometimes if things don't play out
nicely just like that there can be a
decline so recently the quarter one
results were released by a whole bunch
of phone companies and the numbers don't
lie
companies are having a rough time
selling smartphones right now
particularly expensive ones Apple's
iPhone sales were down again by quite a
bit
and same thing goes for Google they
actually don't even appear in this chart
like their sales figures don't amount
for a large enough percentage to show up
on this stuff but they mentioned that
their hardware sales were lower a year
and year and they're citing kind of
overall pressure in that premium segment
we're just super expensive phones are
having a tough time moving right now and
there's also Samsung so these guys
launched the S 10 devices this year and
I thought they were pretty good I would
say that entire industry thought that
they were pretty solid phones but
despite being such good Hardware they're
stating that they still had poor mobile
sales because of competition in the low
to mid tier segment now there is one
standout in this chart its Huawei they
just crushed it in this quarter they had
a growth of 50 percent compared to the
first quarter last year and in this
market where everyone else is just not
doing a great job at moving smartphones
these guys are doing work now analysts
are saying that it's because they have a
nice spread of products in their
repertoire like if you have some
expensive stuff they have some cheap
stuff so for the markets that they're
selling to that lineup works and the
results speak for themselves right
they're now in the number two position
for global market share which is really
impressive this is Huawei a company that
had like one or two percent market share
several years ago and like they've made
some big moves the rest of the big boys
are down on sales and analysts kind of
disagree as to what the real cause is
behind this some people are saying that
it's some global market like the global
economy some people are saying that the
low-end market is kind of pushing
everything out people are saying that
people just don't want to upgrade phones
as regularly all of those factors have a
role I'm sure but this feels like the
end game not that it's like doom and
gloom but this is the point where phone
companies have to just either either one
or two things is going to happen either
they figure it out they create some kind
of innovation like real innovation that
Spurs people to purchase more phones
either folding technology 5g technology
whatever it is or the phone industry
moves to this
decline and we just get commoditization
of smartphones that point where there's
just not enough meaningful differences
between the brain so people start to buy
phones based on their price tag and not
the actual brand itself and
manufacturers would fear this because at
that point phones would compete
primarily on price which is a terrible
spot to be in if you're one of the
people making these phones so for the
past few years in this smartphone
plateau companies have been doing
whatever they can to convince people to
buy new phones like they've been doing
stuff like slowing down processors when
batteries get old and if you go through
each one of these brands like they're
all trying to sell phones in these
abnormal ways like Google's doing half
price on their pixel phones a little
while ago they now have like $200 off
Samsung has $200 off on a phone that's
like six or seven weeks old like this is
an s10 you go to Best Buy they're $200
off even the s10 it's crazy that says
such a good phone but they're having a
tough time moving them $200 off iPhone
even in China like iPhone just doesn't
drop prices normally but in China
they're dropping prices because they got
to move these phones premium smartphones
are very difficult to sell right now so
a lot of companies are spending their
effort and energies on the lower to mid
to your markets like even Google that
traditionally sells more expensive stuff
their room it to launch a pixel 3a in
the next couple of days because that's
what the market demands right now
interestingly though there is one
company that's kind of moving in the
opposite direction oneplus they started
off as a budget brand and they
supposedly have you know their 1 + 7
launching soon but they're supposed to
be launching this one +7 Pro which I'm
assuming is gonna be a much more
expensive version so they're kind of
shifting to a more premium market
seemingly maybe regardless all the phone
companies are facing the same major
issue if they're not making innovative
technologies that people actually want
to spend money on and actually want to
buy and can make use of it then they run
the risk of becoming a commodity this
whole industry runs the risk of becoming
like printers where the main
differentiating feature is price and if
you look at Android phones and you kind
of strip away the gimmicks and you strip
away the minutiae that's different
between them a lot of them look and feel
quite similar to one another obviously
they're different in terms of like you
know details and software but the user
experience is often really similar
between Android phones and if this
continues where the market doesn't
innovate and doesn't do anything really
different I could see this whole thing
becoming a commodity iPhones may be able
to dodge it like they're running their
own ecosystem they're delivering
something that's quite different from
everybody else but for the Android
phones they're all becoming really good
but just increasingly similar to each
other and that's kind of what
commodities look like okay hope you guys
enjoyed this video thumbs if you liked
it
subs if you loved it see you guys next
time
you